Guide for running full node and for setting up WSS (#246)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/maintain-wss.md

---
id: maintain-wss
title: Set up Secure WebSocket for Remote Connections
sidebar_label: Set up Secure WebSocket for Remote Connections
---

You might want to host a node on one server and then connect to it from a UI hosted on another, e.g. [PolakdotJS UI](https://polkadot.js.org/apps). This will not be possible unless you set up a secure proxy for websocket connections. Let's see how we can set up WSS on a remote Substrate node.

_Note: this should **only** be done for sync nodes used as back-end for some dapps or projects. Never open websockets to your validator node - there's no reason to do that and it can only lead to security gaffes!_

In this guide we'll be using Ubuntu 18.04 hosted on a $10 DigitalOcean droplet. We'll assume you're using a similar OS, and that you have nginx installed (if not, run `sudo apt-get install nginx`).

## Set up a node

> Whether it's a plain old substrate node, a Kusama node, or your own private blockchain, they all default to the same websocket connection: port 9944 on localhost. For this example, we'll set up a Kusama sync node (non-validator).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whether it's a generic Substrate node, a Kusama node, or your own private blockchain, they all default to the same websocket connection: port 9944 on localhost. For this example, we'll set up a Kusama sync node (non-validator).
```

> Create a new server on your provider of choice or locally at home (preferred). We'll assume you're using Ubuntu 18.04. Then install substrate and build the node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a new server on your provider of choice or locally at home (preferred). We'll assume you're using Ubuntu 18.04. Then install Substrate and build the node.
```
